ONE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
section
2
U N I T
6
General Provisions
Objectives
Introduction
After studying this unit, the student should:
▸ be able to calculate the minimum number of
15- and 20-ampere branch circuits in a one-family
dwelling.
▸ know the requirements for single receptacles on
individual branch circuits.
▸ understand the branch-circuit ratings allowed for
general-purpose receptacles.
▸ know how to lay out general-purpose receptacles in
a dwelling.
▸ know the receptacle ratings allowed on various size
branch circuits.
▸ understand the requirements for receptacle boxes.
▸ have a good understanding of split-wire receptacles.
▸ know the requirements for wet bar receptacles.
▸ be familiar with the provisions concerning the
mini mum length of free conductors inside boxes.
▸ know the receptacle replacement requirements.
▸ understand the general requirements for lighting
and switches.
▸ be familiar with the use of a white conductor as an
ungrounded conductor.
▸ understand general requirements for devices and
luminaire boxes.
▸ know the provisions for outdoor receptacles.
▸ be familiar with the provisions concerning illumi-
nating outdoor entrances and exits.
▸ understand the requirements for attaching recep-
tacles or lighting to vegetation (such as trees).
Unit 6 contains provisions concerning general areas
both inside and outside of one-family dwellings. A
one-family dwelling is a building consisting solely of
one dwelling unit »Article 100«. Learning codes that
pertain to one-family dwellings is of great importance
because these codes are the foundation for all residential
wiring. One-family dwellings are built in all shapes and
sizes. Some general codes apply to every dwelling, such
as the placement of receptacles in habitable rooms.
Nonmetallic-sheathed cable is the most common
wiring type installed in one-family dwellings. Article 334
covers the use, installation, and construction specifi ca-
tions of nonmetallic-sheathed cable (Types NM, NMC,
and NMS). Uses permitted for nonmetallic-sheathed
cable are covered in 334.10 and uses not permitted are
in 334.12. (See Unit 4 of this text for Code requirements
pertaining to nonmetallic-sheathed cable.)
Prior to the 2008 edition of the NEC, only 120-volt,
single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere branch circuits sup-
plying outlets installed in dwelling unit bedrooms were
required to be arc-fault circuit-interrupter protected.
Now all 120-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere
branch circuits supplying outlets or devices installed in
dwelling unit kitchens, family rooms, dining rooms, liv-
ing rooms, parlors, libraries, dens, bedrooms, sunrooms,
recreation rooms, closets, hallways, laundry areas, or
similar rooms or areas shall be protected by any of the
means described in 210.12(A)(1) through (6).
Over the last several editions of the NEC, require-
ments for GFCI and AFCI protection have expanded.
See 210.8(A) for GFCI protection for personnel require-
ments and 210.12 for AFCI protection requirements.
