18 SECTION 1: FOUNDATIONAL PROVISIONS
Effective Ground-Fault Current Path
A An effective ground-fault current path is an intentionally con-
structed, low-impedance electrically conductive path designed and
intended to carry current under ground-fault conditions from the point
of a ground fault on a wiring system to the electrical supply source.
The reason for this intentionally constructed, low-impedance electri-
cally conductive path is to facilitate the operation of the overcurrent
protective device or ground-fault detector during a ground-fault condi-
tion »Article 100«.
B A ground-fault current path is defi ned as an electrically conductive
path from the point of a ground fault on a wiring system through nor-
mally non–current-carrying conductors, equipment, or the earth to the
electrical supply source. Examples of ground-fault current paths are any
combination of equipment grounding conductors, metallic raceways,
metallic cable sheaths, electrical equipment, and any other electrically
conductive material such as metal, water, and gas piping; steel framing
members; stucco mesh; metal ducting; reinforcing steel; shields of
communications cables; and the earth itself »Article 100«.
N O T E
Electrical equipment and wiring and other electrically conductive
material likely to become energized shall be installed in a manner
that creates a low-impedance circuit facilitating the operation of
the overcurrent device or ground-fault detector. It shall be capable
of safely carrying the maximum ground-fault current likely to be
imposed on it from any point on the wiring system where a ground
fault may occur to the electrical supply source. The earth shall not be
considered as an eff ective ground-fault current path »250.4(A)(5)«.
Enclosed
Equipment, conductors, etc., surrounded by a case, housing,
fence, or walls that prevent persons from accidentally con-
tacting energized parts are referred to as enclosed
»Article 100«.
A Panelboards located within cabinets or cutout
boxes are considered enclosed.
B Electrical equipment installed within the perimeter of a
fence, or similar area, qualifi es as enclosed.
C Conductors are also considered enclosed when installed
in panels, wireways, raceways, etc.
